# Millerite
Deer Neural Networks for Millerite surface energy calculation

[Millerite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millerite), the trigonal NiS crystal, has a complicated crystal structure that makes calculating its surface properties through classical computational materials science methods troublesome. The goal of this project is to implement the high-dimentional neural networks (HDNN) to calculate surface energy of different possible facets of Millerite. This project is divided into three phases as follows:

* __Phase 1__: Making the initial structures for VASP single point energy calculations. This structures are made from 3D nanocluster configurations made in Materials Studio (input files are XSD files). The code reads XSD fils and makes charge neutral nanocluster configurations by removing cations (Ni) or anaions (S) from the surface of the nanocluster randomley. The VASP POSCAR file is then made from this atomic configuration. 

  Each structure is given a structure code and once a random stucture is built, its structure code is compared with the existing structures. The new structure is accepted if its not a duplicate. The structure code is built according to the number of each type of undercoordinated atoms on its surface. For a simple crystl structure, coordination number (number of the close neighbors) along with the atom type (Ni or S) may be enough to build an adequate structural code for an undercoordinated atom. For millerite how ever, it is not possible. There are 4 different bonds and 2 atom types in Millerite. Combination of these degrees of freedom results in 29 unique atom types for each undercoordinated atom. We used an array of length 5 (len(b) = 5) to represent each undercoordinated atom type. b[0] represents the element (0 for Ni and 1 for S) and b[1] to b[4] represent each bond type number for the atom under consideration. Since the maximum number of bonds is two, each undercoordinated atom can be coded by a single number with is the representation of array b in base 3. There are 29 unique possible codes for undercoordinated atoms. Finaly, an atomic configuration can be represented by an array of length 29 whose elements represent the number of each undercoordinated atom type in the cluster.

* __Phase 2__: Building the training set. After calculating the energies of all nanoclusters built in Phase 1, this code is making a training set for training the neural network. Each x[i] in this training set is an array of length 29 that represents the atomic structure. Each x[i][j] is a number of the jth undercoordinated atom type found in the atomic structure. Each y[i] is a scalar representing the energy difference per atom between the enegy of the 3d atomic structure represented by x[i] and a perfect millerite supercell with teh same number of atoms. 

* __Phase 3__: Building the model.
